# Reflective: Zines

#### Matthew Cook

## Zines: Egotism, Community, and Technology

One of the characteristics of zines that I found most intriguing is the wide-ranging amounts of self the author can include in their works. I was initially put off by the idea of zines I got from reading Pagan Kennedy's zine from her early adulthood. Though I thought it was funny, I thought it was extremely self-centered, and Pagan clearly realized that. For some reason, I didn't like that, as it seemed very arrogant and self-absorbed. However, in class with Giordana, I saw a lot of zines in her personal collection that mainly revolved around cosolidating the works of others. For example, one of the zines I saw was a periodical collection of poetry that was not written by the producer of the zine. Another example was Giordana's zine, which collected pieces from marginalized groups in Allston and was distributed around Boston.

From there, Giordana explained that the sensitivity of the pieces in that zine often made those pieces most fitting to be in zine form. Her zine was ephemeral, and was not made with the intention of being saved in archives for ages. If anything it would solely be kept in a person's personal zine collection (just like Giordana's). This principle is at the heart of the Zine Librarians Code of Ethics. It states repeatedly that pieces published in zines are often very private and localized, which leads to the audience of zines being very intimate. Because of that, zine librarians must keep in mind that zine writers' privacy should be respected as their pieces may not have been intended for wider audiences. For our final project, Ben and I will be creating a zine. Though it's not private, we plan to only distribute it at events where solely people involved with Ultimate will be present. I'm excited to see how it will spread naturally!

Digressing from topics discussed by the readings, I want to explore my ideas of the parallels between zines and some online communities. We talked about zines being comparable to blogs and Tumblr pages in class, but those are very public in my opinion. I don't think the pieces displayed there are extremely private. Tumblr much more so than blogs, at the very least. However, when someone said that Twitter had communities that were zine-esque, I could understand that. I feel like there are some very niche parts of Twitter that you would only be able to explore if you knew to be there. As I was talking to you about our project proposal, though, I realized that I think a Slack workspace has a very similar culture to zines. It is a safe, enclosed space for people to discuss their various interests with a potentially large community. Each channel somewhat lines up with a recurring segment in a zine, in my opinion. However, zines inevitable have the chance of being discovered by people outside of the community, whereas Slack is much more isolated. That would be the biggest disconnect in my opinion. I think an argument could be made as to the parallels between subreddits and zine audiences in terms of nicheness, but the points would be similar to those made above. I'm excited to see if I find any more parallels between Slack and social media  as we create our zine over the next month or two.