# Reflective: What Is a Book

#### Matthew Cook

## Humans' Effect on Books

Last week was the first full week of our semester-long foray into bookmaking. One of the first things I'd like to reflect on is a bit of a meta-characteristic of the course: the experience of explaining the course to people in my life. Over the past few weeks, I've been explaining the beginning of my semester to many people important to me in my life: my parents, my roommates, and my friends. The first response is always a misunderstanding. When I tell them my class is called "Building a (Better) Book", their eyebrows furrow and I have learned to immediately clarify that the class does not focus around narrative structure. I use the words "scroll", "parchment" and "binding" to help illustrate my point, and then cite the printing press in the closet attached to the classroom. Their reaction changes from confused to intrigued, and we normally transition into a quick discussion about the print media we consume. 

Similarly to my friends' initial reactions, I was skeptical entering the first few lectures. I can't say that I've ever entered a class not knowing at all what to expect before, and here I am doing exactly that in my fifth and final year. This first full week helped solidify in my mind what I had gotten myself into and has made me extremely excited for the coming year. In all seriousness, *The Book* was a main factor in that solidification, while also "liquefying " some things that have been "solid" for me my whole life. For example, the "muted books" in Chapter 3 of *The Book* are objects I would've never considered as books in anything other than form. However, after reading Borsuk's opinions regarding them, I have found myself more open to considering them, as well as other objects, to be books. While my foundational understanding of what a book really *is* was being altered, my understanding of what this class would be became clear. I realized that many of my ideas regarding informational media would be changed if I were willing to learn. I've come into each class with an open mind, and whether or not I've left with new opinions, I've always left with new knowledge.

One tidbit of knowledge I've left class with has been our discussion on how humans' use affect books. One example is dog-earing specific pages in order to keep them for easy reference. On a less intentional note, rips and liquid spills leave their own marks on physical books.  Even just the oils from human hands cause books to degrade. From that, we can learn how a book was read, seeing that boring sequential tomes' pages are in increasingly better shape as you approach the end of the book. Encyclopedias, on the other hand, normally have a fairly even distribution of page quality, since they are referenced out of order.

These examples were fully on display during our visit to the archives. I had the privilege of observing Northeastern's only medieval book with Larissa, and we got to closely analyze its binding, colored text, and small musical notation. I was fascinated to learn that it was written by hand (I could never write so mechanically) and on parchment. Later, we analyzed a very large book and discussed the reason for its size. It clearly could not fit in the hand for portable reading, so we deduced that its purpose was either for reference on a large table or to be kept on a shelf as a status symbol. Also, that book had a watermark, which is another word I did not realize came from print. When we shone the flashlight through the pages, we could observe the watermark on each page left by the printer. The last paper-related thing that really stood out to me from the archives was the discussion of the fragility of wood pulp paper. Professor Cordell said that the paper that came from old linens was much more durable than its successor, and because of that, the early wood pulp paper works are in much more perilous condition than the much older books that came before them.

It feels like we began with a broad survey of the various properties of books, which I have honestly never considered before. I am expecting for many of my current beliefs (or lack thereof) to be changed by the end of the semester, and I'm truly eager to continue. Until next week, when I discuss our findings on print!