# Reflective: Elit I

#### Matthew Cook

## 17776 rules! (and other musings)

I want to begin by saying that the class where we discussed 17776 was one of my favorite individual class periods of my college career. I'm not sure if it's because of how much I liked the piece or not, but I truly enjoyed myself so much. I think the class collectively had some extremely interesting points that I hadn't really considered while I was reading it, such as Lauren's comment on how its navigability was very clunky for her, Madeline informing us of the fun URL trick, and Colin bringing up the genre as fantasy. I also enjoyed the discussion about how it ties into how humans deal with boredom, and thought a lot about that after class. I tried to self-evaluate why I enjoyed that day quite so much, and I realized that I think my favorite conversations with my friends are thought experiments similar to that which is evident in 17776. I really cherish hypothesizing about what things would be like given certain conditions and shooting the shit about completely hypothetical situations. I also appreciate all of the other students coming to class prepared with lots of informational comments to enrich my perception of the work.

As for the piece about the synthesis of text being correlated to the medium in which it was consumed, I completely agree with it. I find myself having trouble maintaining information I consume from a screen or slideshow, and for that reason I take notes manually in every class I have, even when I have access to the digital materials that are given to me during class. I somewhat wish that teachers still needed to write everything on the board because it would make it much easier for me to be able to copy down all of the notes. Since everything is already prepared on the slides, I find that teachers often move very quickly through the slides without considering that people may want to be able to read through all of the slides.

Unrelated to slideshows, I have trouble finding "books" read on e-readers to be books. I would prefer to define them as *texts* presented in a digital medium. When I make my book definition for my project, I will likely stipulate that a true book needs to be tied to its text. This may have collateral, as it would disallow videogames and movies from being books as they can be consumed on many different devices. Actually, in this scenario, it would actually disallow TVs and video game systems for being books, as the book, to me, is the technology containing the text. I guess this should be saved for the book report, but what I was trying to say is that I think a Kindle ceases to be a book when it is able to display many, many different texts to a user. If a Kindle were only able to display one text, its form would be tied to its text, making it a true book in my definition. As is, e-readers are not books, in my opinion.

My least favorite part about e-readers is their difficulty of determining your progress in the book. I love the tactile feel of seeing the number of pages in my left hand slowly increase as I absorb the content of the book. I think e-readers take many things away, but that is the aspect I miss most when using them.